---
page_title: "cloud_server Resource - terraform-provider-ims-cloud"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  It's recommended to use our server configuration interface https://config.cloud.ims-network.net which provides ready to use Terraform templates with valid configuration options and identifiers according to your selection.
---

# cloud_server (Resource)

It's recommended to use our [server configuration interface](https://config.cloud.ims-network.net) which provides ready-to-use Terraform templates with valid configuration options and identifiers according to your selection.

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "cloud_server" "example" {
  name                  = "example-server"
  datacenter_id         = data.cloud_datacenter.example.id
  image_id              = data.cloud_image.example.id
  cpu_type              = "C"
  cpu_cores             = 4
  ram_mb                = 8192
  disk_sizes_gb         = [50, 100]
  billing_cycle         = "monthly"
  power_on              = true
  daily_backup          = true
  managed               = false
  password              = "example-password"
  ssh_pubkey            = file("~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub")
  network {
    name = "wan"
    ip   = "auto"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **datacenter_id** (String) - ID attribute of datacenter data source.
- **image_id** (String) - ID attribute of image data source.
- **name** (String) - The server name.

### Optional

- **billing_cycle** (String) - Hourly or monthly, see [IMS Cloud Pricing](https://platform.cloud.ims-network.net/pricing) for details.
- **cpu_cores** (Number) - Number of CPU cores to allocate. See [IMS Cloud Pricing](https://platform.cloud.ims-network.net/pricing) for a description of the meaning of this value depending on the selected CPU type.
- **cpu_type** (String) - The CPU type - a single upper-case letter. See [IMS Cloud Pricing](https://platform.cloud.ims-network.net/pricing) for available CPU types and description of each type.
- **daily_backup** (Boolean) - Set to true to enable daily backups.
- **disk_sizes_gb** (List of Number) - List of disk sizes in GB, each item in the list will create a new disk in the given size and attach it to the server.
- **id** (String) - The ID of this resource.
- **managed** (Boolean) - Set to true for managed support services.
- **monthly_traffic_package** (String) - For advanced use-cases, you can select a specific traffic package, depending on datacenter availability. See [IMS Cloud Pricing](https://platform.cloud.ims-network.net/pricing) for details.
- **network** (Block List, Max: 4) - Network interfaces to attach to the server. If not specified, a single WAN interface with auto IP will be attached. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--network))
- **password** (String, Sensitive) - The server root password.
- **power_on** (Boolean) - True by default, set to false to have the server created without powering it on.
- **ram_mb** (Number) - Amount of RAM to allocate in MB.
- **ssh_pubkey** (String) - SSH public key to allow access to the server without a password.
- **startup_script** (String) - Startup script to run on the server.

### Read-Only

- **attached_networks** (List of Object) - (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--attached_networks))
- **generated_password** (String, Sensitive) - In case password was not provided, an auto-generated password will be used.
- **internal_server_id** (String) - Internal ID of the server.
- **price_hourly_off** (String) - The hourly price if the server is turned off for the entire hour.
- **price_hourly_on** (String) - The hourly price if the server is turned on for the entire hour.
- **price_monthly_on** (String) - The monthly price if the server is turned on for the entire month.
- **private_ips** (List of String) - List of private IPs.
- **public_ips** (List of String) - List of public IPs.

<a id="nestedblock--network"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network`

Required:

- **name** (String) - Set to 'wan' to attach a public internet interface with auto-allocated IP. To use a private network, set to full_name attribute of network data source.

Optional:

- **ip** (String) - The IP to use, leave unset or set to 'auto' to auto-allocate an IP.

<a id="nestedatt--attached_networks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `attached_networks`

Read-Only:

- **ips** (List of String) - List of IPs.
- **network** (String) - The network.